README.md, before:

# OpenDroneMap Docs

Contribute to [OpenDroneMap](https://docs.opendronemap.org)'s documentation! Anyone is welcome to share their knowledge and improve our documentation. 🎉 And it's pretty simple too!

# "But I don't know if I can contribute"

Even if you think your contribution might not be valuable, it might be for other users! If you discovered something remotely useful to you, it probably is very useful to others! :)

Tips, tricks, hacks, datasets, lessons learned, best practices, every bit helps. We want to know! Share it.

We also need help with translations! The translations are managed through Transifex and so can be done via a simple interface in your browser. Scroll down to "Contributing translations" for more details, or if you're familiar with Transifex you can click over to [this project on there](https://www.transifex.com/americanredcross/opendronemap_docs/).

# How To Make Your First Contribution

If you don't have a GitHub account, [register](https://github.com/join?source=header-home) first. It's free and GitHub is awesome.

Once you have an account there are two ways to contribute. One is quick for small changes, the second takes a bit longer to setup but makes writing long parts of documentation much quicker.

# The Quick Method

Simply browse to https://github.com/OpenDroneMap/docs/tree/publish/source and press one of the files. Each file corresponds to a page of the documentation. Press the "Edit" icon.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1951843/54656313-78e26500-4a9b-11e9-9d7f-412bf7c36a2b.png)

Make your changes, then select "Create a new branch for this commit and start a pull request". Complete the form that appears and wait for your changes to be approved! That's it!

# The Pro Method

For quick changes the method above is quick and fast. But if you want to write docs like a pro, in your own text editor of choice, follow these steps.

Depending on your operating system, you should follow these steps to create a local copy of the documentation. This way you can modify and check the results before sending them for review.

## Step 1. Make a Copy (fork) This Repository

Press the "Fork" button at the top of this page.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1951843/54656025-77fd0380-4a9a-11e9-82f6-35278ed9ccfc.png)

## Step 2. Install Git and Python 3

### Linux:

```bash
sudo apt-get install -y git python3 python3-pip
```

### MacOS 

We recommend to use [Brew](https://brew.sh/) for installing Python3.

```bash
brew install python3
```

Git comes preinstalled on MacOS.

### Windows

Download Git from https://git-scm.com/download/win and Python 3 from https://www.python.org/downloads/windows/

## Step 3. Make A Local Copy of The Documentation

Open a Terminal (or a command prompt). In Windows you open a command prompt by pressing the Window Key and typing "Command Prompt" then Enter.

Then run (replacing "yourusername" with your GitHub username):

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/docs
```

If it's your first time using git, also run:

```
git config --global user.name "Your Name"
git config --global user.email "your@email.com"
```

With your information. So that we can credit the contributions to you.

## Step 3. Get The Documentation Running

From the same Terminal (or command prompt) run the following:

```
cd docs/
pip install virtualenv
virtualenv -p python3 venv
source venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Then if there are no errors, run:

```
make livehtml
```

Note that if WebODM is running you should temporarely stop it while you edit the documentation.

## Step 4. Start Editing

You can now open a web browser to http://localhost:8000 and see the documentation!

You can use a text editor to edit the .rst files in the "source" folder (for example, Visual Studio Code).

As soon as you make a change to one of the files, your web browser will reload the documentation with the new changes!

## Step 5. Publish Your Changes

Open a Terminal (or command prompt) and type:

```bash
cd docs/
git commit -a -m "A description of my changes"
git push origin publish
```

You will be prompted for your GitHub credentials.

## Step 6. Open a Pull Request

Open https://github.com/OpenDroneMap/docs and you'll see a box asking you to open a pull request. Open a pull request by filling in a description of your changes and you're set! Somebody will review your changes and your contribution will be live on https://docs.opendronemap.org once approved.

# Translations

## Contributing translations

Transifex has a getting [started guide for translators](https://docs.transifex.com/getting-started-1/translators) that will walk you through the steps to setup an account.

The ODM documentation Transifex project can be found at: https://www.transifex.com/americanredcross/opendronemap_docs/

## Managing the translation process

This project uses [Transifex](https://www.transifex.com/) and the [`transifex-client`](https://docs.transifex.com/client/introduction) tool to help people contribute translations. The `transifex-client` tool is included in the requirements.txt file and should be installed on your system during setup when you run `pip install -r requirements.txt`.

You need to configure your account. For this, you need to create an API Token for your user to access this service through the command line. This can be done under your Transifex [User’s Settings](https://www.transifex.com/user/settings/api/). Set it up to use the token:

```
tx init --token $TOKEN --no-interactive
```

If there are changes in the English `*.rst` source files, you can update the `.pot` files: 
`sphinx-build -b gettext source source/locale/en/pot`

If there are **new** English `.rst` source files, you can map them by updating the `./.tx/config` file.

To then update the English source on Transifex:

```
tx push --source
```

To fetch translations from Transifex:

```
tx pull --all
```

Alternatively, you can pull only a specific language. For example:

```
tx pull -l sw
```

**TODO:** figure out why it may be necessary to apply the force tag (for example, `tx pull -l sw -f`)

To add a new language, do it through the Transifex interface and then add a new line to the Makefile `deploy` command.

### Questions?

Reach out to https://community.opendronemap.org, we'll help you get up and running with your first contribution if you get stuck!

#### Repository Notes

Travis-CI docs for [Building a Python Project](https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/languages/python/) and [GitHub Pages Deployment](https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/deployment/pages/). Personal access token with 'public_repo - Access public repositories' permissions created and used it in `travis encrypt GH_TOKEN=my_github_token --add env.matrix` as described in the [Travis-CI docs](https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/environment-variables#Encrypting-environment-variables).

Commit message:

troubleshooting build err from translation

README.md, after:

# OpenDroneMap Docs

Contribute to [OpenDroneMap](https://docs.opendronemap.org)'s documentation! Anyone is welcome to share their knowledge and improve our documentation. 🎉 And it's pretty simple too!

# "But I don't know if I can contribute"

Even if you think your contribution might not be valuable, it might be for other users! If you discovered something remotely useful to you, it probably is very useful to others! :)

Tips, tricks, hacks, datasets, lessons learned, best practices, every bit helps. We want to know! Share it.

We also need help with translations! The translations are managed through Transifex and so can be done via a simple interface in your browser. Scroll down to "Contributing translations" for more details, or if you're familiar with Transifex you can click over to [this project on there](https://www.transifex.com/americanredcross/opendronemap_docs/).

# How To Make Your First Contribution

If you don't have a GitHub account, [register](https://github.com/join?source=header-home) first. It's free and GitHub is awesome.

Once you have an account there are two ways to contribute. One is quick for small changes, the second takes a bit longer to setup but makes writing long parts of documentation much quicker.

# The Quick Method

Simply browse to https://github.com/OpenDroneMap/docs/tree/publish/source and press one of the files. Each file corresponds to a page of the documentation. Press the "Edit" icon.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1951843/54656313-78e26500-4a9b-11e9-9d7f-412bf7c36a2b.png)

Make your changes, then select "Create a new branch for this commit and start a pull request". Complete the form that appears and wait for your changes to be approved! That's it!

# The Pro Method

For quick changes the method above is quick and fast. But if you want to write docs like a pro, in your own text editor of choice, follow these steps.

Depending on your operating system, you should follow these steps to create a local copy of the documentation. This way you can modify and check the results before sending them for review.

## Step 1. Make a Copy (fork) This Repository

Press the "Fork" button at the top of this page.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1951843/54656025-77fd0380-4a9a-11e9-82f6-35278ed9ccfc.png)

## Step 2. Install Git and Python 3

### Linux:

```bash
sudo apt-get install -y git python3 python3-pip
```

### MacOS 

We recommend to use [Brew](https://brew.sh/) for installing Python3.

```bash
brew install python3
```

Git comes preinstalled on MacOS.

### Windows

Download Git from https://git-scm.com/download/win and Python 3 from https://www.python.org/downloads/windows/

## Step 3. Make A Local Copy of The Documentation

Open a Terminal (or a command prompt). In Windows you open a command prompt by pressing the Window Key and typing "Command Prompt" then Enter.

Then run (replacing "yourusername" with your GitHub username):

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/docs
```

If it's your first time using git, also run:

```
git config --global user.name "Your Name"
git config --global user.email "your@email.com"
```

With your information. So that we can credit the contributions to you.

## Step 3. Get The Documentation Running

From the same Terminal (or command prompt) run the following:

```
cd docs/
pip install virtualenv
virtualenv -p python3 venv
source venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Then if there are no errors, run:

```
make livehtml
```

Note that if WebODM is running you should temporarely stop it while you edit the documentation.

## Step 4. Start Editing

You can now open a web browser to http://localhost:8000 and see the documentation!

You can use a text editor to edit the .rst files in the "source" folder (for example, Visual Studio Code).

As soon as you make a change to one of the files, your web browser will reload the documentation with the new changes!

## Step 5. Publish Your Changes

Open a Terminal (or command prompt) and type:

```bash
cd docs/
git commit -a -m "A description of my changes"
git push origin publish
```

You will be prompted for your GitHub credentials.

## Step 6. Open a Pull Request

Open https://github.com/OpenDroneMap/docs and you'll see a box asking you to open a pull request. Open a pull request by filling in a description of your changes and you're set! Somebody will review your changes and your contribution will be live on https://docs.opendronemap.org once approved.

# Translations

## Contributing translations

Transifex has a getting [started guide for translators](https://docs.transifex.com/getting-started-1/translators) that will walk you through the steps to setup an account.

The ODM documentation Transifex project can be found at: https://www.transifex.com/americanredcross/opendronemap_docs/

## Managing the translation process

This project uses [Transifex](https://www.transifex.com/) and the [`transifex-client`](https://docs.transifex.com/client/introduction) tool to help people contribute translations. The `transifex-client` tool is included in the requirements.txt file and should be installed on your system during setup when you run `pip install -r requirements.txt`.

You need to configure your account. For this, you need to create an API Token for your user to access this service through the command line. This can be done under your Transifex [User’s Settings](https://www.transifex.com/user/settings/api/). Set it up to use the token:

```
tx init --token $TOKEN --no-interactive
```

If there are changes in the English `*.rst` source files, you can update the `.pot` files: 
`sphinx-build -b gettext source source/locale/en/pot`

If there are **new** English `.rst` source files, you can map them by updating the `./.tx/config` file.

To then update the English source on Transifex:

```
tx push --source
```

To fetch translations from Transifex:

```
tx pull --all
```

Alternatively, you can pull only a specific language. For example:

```
tx pull -l sw
```

**TODO:** figure out why it may be necessary to apply the force tag (for example, `tx pull -l sw -f`)

To add a new language, do it through the Transifex interface and then add a new line to the Makefile `deploy` command.

## The Travis CI build failed... 😞

Don't panic! Unfortunately, Transifex doesn't protect the reST notation that Sphinx uses for things like formatting and links. It's possible that during translation, some of the syntax was broken.

Start up your Python virtual environment if it's not already with `source venv/bin/activate` and then try a build of the language that you're trying to update, for example:

``` 
sphinx-build -b html -D language='sw' source "_build/html/sw/" -nW
```

The `-nW` (nitpicky) flag is important. You should see an output in your console such as:

```
Warning, treated as error:
/path/to/my/project/OpenDroneMap/docs/source/multispectral.rst:25:<translated>:1:Inline interpreted text or phrase reference start-string without end-string.
```

Look at the source file and line that is mentioned. In this case the file is `source/multispectral.rst` and the line is the number after the colon after the filename (`25`). Looking at the file we see that line 25 is the last line and the "Help edit these docs!" link. 

Go to Transifex, go to the resource, and got to the string. The warning/error message should help you understand what went wrong. In this case the link syntax wasn't matched correctly. Fix and save the translation.

Pull the language down (e.g. `tx pull -l sw`) and then try the build again. Unfortunately, if there is more than one error, you'll have to fix them one at a time.

### Questions?

Reach out to https://community.opendronemap.org, we'll help you get up and running with your first contribution if you get stuck!

#### Repository Notes

Travis-CI docs for [Building a Python Project](https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/languages/python/) and [GitHub Pages Deployment](https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/deployment/pages/). Personal access token with 'public_repo - Access public repositories' permissions created and used it in `travis encrypt GH_TOKEN=my_github_token --add env.matrix` as described in the [Travis-CI docs](https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/environment-variables#Encrypting-environment-variables).
